Install StorageOS v2 with Etcd (#31)
storageos/tutorials: install-storageos/050-persistent-volume.md

Developers can request storage using Persistent Volume Claims. In order to
demonstrate this we will deploy a Redis Server on Kubernetes (as Redis can
persist its state to a persistent volume) with the data being written to a
StorageOS persistent volume.

We could use a Statefulset to deploy Redis with persistent storage. For
didactic purposes, we are just using a PVC and Pod.

Create PersistentVolumeClaim and a Redis pod which references the `prod` StorageClass:

```
kubectl create -f- <<END
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: redis-prod-pvc
spec:
  storageClassName: prod
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Gi
END
``` {{execute}}

Check the PVC and PV

`kubectl get pvc`{{execute}} and `kubectl get pv`{{execute}}

> StorageOS dynamically provisions a PV (Persistent Volume) that binds to
> the PVC(Persistent Volume Claim).

Check the Volume in StorageOS

`kubectl exec -ti cli -n kube-system -- storageos get volumes`{{execute}}

Because we set the replication to 1 for the `prod` StorageClass, we can see in

> the output that the volume has `1/1` replicas. This means that the replica is healthy and ready.

Author: Many people get confused here I think we need to be even more clear. 

Because we set the replication to 1 for the `prod` StorageClass, StorageOS creates a one replica in addition to the volume primary. Hence two synchronous copies of the data. 1/1 indicates the number of replicas heathy out of the number of replicas per volume. In this case the one replica is healthy.

Lets create a Pod that uses the Volume.

```
kubectl create -f- <<END
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: redis
    role: master
  name: redis-persisted
spec:
  containers:
    - name: master
      image: redis:5.0.4
      env:
        - name: MASTER
          value: "true"
      ports:
        - containerPort: 6379
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: "0.1"
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /redis-master-data
          name: redis-data
  volumes:
    - name: redis-data
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: redis-prod-pvc # Reference to the PVC above
END
``` {{execute}}

Check the Pod

> `kubectl get pod`{{execute}}

Reviewer: Perhaps use -w for consistency with other commands?

Developers can request storage using Persistent Volume Claims. In order to
demonstrate this we will deploy a Redis Server on Kubernetes (as Redis can
persist its state to a persistent volume) with the data being written to a
StorageOS persistent volume.

We could use a Statefulset to deploy Redis with persistent storage. For
didactic purposes, we are just using a PVC and Pod.

Create PersistentVolumeClaim and a Redis pod which references the `prod` StorageClass:

```
kubectl create -f- <<END
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: redis-prod-pvc
spec:
  storageClassName: prod
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Gi
END
``` {{execute}}

Check the PVC and PV

`kubectl get pvc`{{execute}} and `kubectl get pv`{{execute}}

> > StorageOS dynamically provisions a PV (Persistent Volume) that bounds to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> StorageOS dynamically provisions a PV (Persistent Volume) that binds to
```

> the PVC(Persistent Volume Claim).

Check the Volume in StorageOS

`storageos get volumes`{{execute}}

Because we set the replication to 1 for the `prod` StorageClass, we can see in

> the output that the volume has `1/1` replicas. One replica healthy and ready

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that the replica is healthy and ready.
```

out of one replica requested.

Lets create a Pod that uses the Volume.

```
kubectl create -f- <<END
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: redis
    role: master
  name: redis-persisted
spec:
  containers:
    - name: master
      image: redis:5.0.4
      env:
        - name: MASTER
          value: "true"
      ports:
        - containerPort: 6379
      resources:
        limits:
          cpu: "0.1"
      volumeMounts:
        - mountPath: /redis-master-data
          name: redis-data
  volumes:
    - name: redis-data
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: redis-prod-pvc # Reference to the PVC above
END
``` {{execute}}

Check the Pod

`kubectl get pod`{{execute}}

> During the Pod provisioning, the StorageOS Volume is mounted in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During Pod provisioning, the StorageOS Volume is mounted in
```

`/redis-master-data`. You can exec into the container and see the standard

> Linux device being used. A device created dynamically by StorageOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Linux device being used, the device created dynamically by StorageOS.
```

`kubectl exec redis-persisted -- /bin/sh -c "cd /redis-master-data && df -h
."`{{execute}}

Congratulations, you have successfully installed StorageOS on Kubernetes, created a volume, and bound that volume to an application!

StorageOS feature Labels can be passed in the StorageClass as shown with the

> `prod` StorageClass, or you can set it by PVC. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`prod` StorageClass, or you can set labels on the PVC.
```
